Add 4.6 release (#154)
solidusio/edgeguides: docs/upgrading-solidus/v4.6.mdx

---
sidebar_position: -4.6
---

import MinimalRequirements from '@site/src/theme/MinimalRequirements';

# Solidus v4.6 (2025-09-09)

<MinimalRequirements ruby="3.1" rails="7.0" />

> We're excited to announce the release of Solidus v4.6.0, packed with improvements across all components of the framework. This release focuses on enhanced email handling, reverse charge VAT support, improved admin UI components, and better Rails compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're excited to announce the release of Solidus v4.6.0, packed with improvements across all components of the framework. This release focuses on event-based transactional email configuration, reverse charge VAT support, and improved admin UI components
```

Two suggested tweaks:

- "enhanced email handling" seemed a bit general
- "better Rails compatibility" should be invisible, and maybe isn't worth highlighting up here. Your call!

## 🚀 Key Highlights

### Event-Driven Email System
This release introduces a major refactor of the email system, moving from coupled mailer calls to a flexible event subscriber pattern:

> - **New Order Events**: Added comprehensive order lifecycle events for better extensibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **New Order Events**: `carton_shipped`, `order_canceled`, and `order_short_shipped` events to allow for even more order extensibility
```

- **Separated Mailer Logic**: Order confirmation, shipping notifications, and cancellation emails are now handled by dedicated subscribers

### Reverse Charge VAT Support
Added comprehensive support for EU reverse charge VAT requirements:

- **Store Configuration**: New reverse charge status field for stores
- **Address Integration**: Reverse charge fields added to address handling
- **API Support**: Full API coverage for reverse charge functionality

### Enhanced Admin UI Components
Significant improvements to the modern Solidus Admin interface:

- **New Select Component**: Improved performance and UX for dropdown selections
- **Alert Component**: New alert system for better user feedback
- **Refactored Address Forms**: Cleaner, more maintainable address input components
- **Table Improvements**: Fixed sorting functionality and better semantic markup

## 📦 Component Updates

### Solidus Core
- **Migration Improvements**: All migrations can now be properly rolled back
- **Rails Compatibility**: Better support for multiple Rails versions with proper migration inheritance

> - **Database Relations**: Enhanced addressbook with proper foreign keys and associations

Reviewer: I think there were more improvements to relations than just the addressbook, no?

- **Linting**: Improved code quality with updated linting rules

### Dependencies

- **Updated ImportMap Rails**: Upgraded to v2 for better asset management
- **Migration Standards**: Enforced consistent migration versioning across the framework

## 🐛 Bug Fixes

- Fixed typos throughout the codebase ([#6207](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/pull/6207))
- Resolved currency display issues in admin order listings ([#5929](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/pull/5929))
- Fixed metadata migration compatibility with custom user classes ([#6157](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/pull/6157))
- Corrected form tag closure issues in table components ([#6172](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/pull/6172))
- Improved deprecation warning messages for better developer experience ([#6163](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/pull/6163))
- Fixed documentation comments to reflect default settings ([#6171](https://github.com/solidusio/solidus/pull/6171))

## 🔄 Breaking Changes

- Email sending behavior has changed from direct mailer calls to event subscribers. While backward compatible, custom email logic may need updates

> - Migration version enforcement may require attention if you have custom migrations with incorrect versions

Reviewer: I don't think this is true. Migration versions should only be enforced for Solidus developers, not application developers.

We're excited to announce the release of Solidus v4.6.0, packed with improvements across all components of the framework. This release focuses on enhanced email handling, reverse charge VAT support, improved admin UI components, and better Rails compatibility.

> ## Database Integrity Changes

Reviewer: I appreciate these additional notes. Very nice. 👍

### Postgres Users

In Postgres, adding a foreign key blocks writes on both tables. So in large databases extra care should be taken to minimize downtime.
Please update the migrations to use `NOT VALID` by using `validate: false` and then validate the foreign key in a separate step.

```ruby
add_foreign_key :spree_user_addresses, :spree_addresses, column: :address_id, null: false, validate: false
```

Then, after the migration has been run, you can validate the foreign key in a separate migration.

```ruby
validate_foreign_key :spree_user_addresses, :spree_addresses, column: :address_id
```

The same is advised for index changes. By concurrently adding indexes, downtime can be minimized.

```ruby
class ChangeCountriesIsoToUnique < ActiveRecord::Migration[7.0]
  disable_ddl_transaction!

  def change
    remove_index :spree_countries, :iso, algorithm: :concurrently
    add_index :spree_countries, :iso, unique: true, algorithm: :concurrently
  end
end
```

:::note

You need to disable the transaction for the migration when using `algorithm: :concurrently`.

> ### Country Iso Uniqueness

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Country ISO Uniqueness
```
